alright thanks for being tuned in
welcome to UK we amuse extra I'm Jason
solace filling in for the vacationing
Sonya artero well after hearing Japanese
American artist Roger shimomura speak
about his experiences in the world war
two Japanese internment camps University
of want professor duck Kim Scoob was so
inspired that he found a way to lure him
to our island Shima moro was able to
deal with the stress of his experience
through his art work entitled detention
and discrimination this is work that
earned him a substantial national and
international amount of praise joining
dr. Scoob tonight is Daniel westie he's
an associate professor of philosophy at
Clemson University very very good
basketball team I might add so gentlemen
thank you very much sure our pleasure
all rights it's always always nice when
we have gentlemen there's such esteemed
academic backgrounds of course that
would be the two of you because lord
knows I had a tough time of you oh gee
but enough about that doctor Scoob what
exactly brought you to appreciate the
work of mr. Shannon moron well I guess
two things one is I saw a lot of
connection with with Guam experience you
know turns the internment camps here
internment camps there and then and the
interaction of of you know your
experience you have and then relating
that to artwork and other experiences
and so I really thought that that would
be really resonate well it out here with
the people in Guam and then a second I
thought that this would be a good a good
experience or a good opportunity to
bring people's attention to local art
scene local artists and so that aspired
me to Canada to talk to him and Roger
fortunately said ok it took about a year
to get it you know his he was booked
ahead about a year and so then we kind
of planned on now and so we were you
know we got this all set up we just got
finished a little bit hearing we I
tongue contacted Guam Business Bureau
and the caja Guam Council of the Arts
and Humanities and well kind of fell
away but we did you know kaha did get a
grant to help support this and then but
we're in trouble because you know Guam
visible didn't really help out that much
because the other needs I guess and an
so Katie black from continental and
amy Lynn Salas from marriott you know it
came in and gave us complimentary you
know supported they have efforts and
that really made a difference so it's
only been about a month since you've
really been running around trunk of this
thing I'll set up its really worked out
good and then since then Guam Nissan and
japan japan club have really come about
to talking to help out so we've all made
it possible well like with so many
things in life it's all about the
logistics yeah last minute you know it
all falls in place fortunately all right
well Danny will go for our next question
to you sir and of course you teach
philosophy at Clemson and from what I
understand you specialize in ethics and
you've written about ethics before in
the context of philosophy um what about
your areas of expertise drew you to mr.
shim amaura's paintings as he expressed
himself well it was more the exposure
that my colleague bill lu gave me to the
work and the planning that he had
underway for exhibit at clemson minidoka
revisited which was mounted in 2005 i do
legal philosophy as well as ethics and
of course with the internment camp
service and large questions about the
constitutionality of the intern at all
but as we talk more about it i saw more
in rogers work that had an ethical
dimension to it and that really excited
me because i think that art is probably
the best prompt for people to think
about ethical questions and we were
talking before the program about the
movie the matrix that's an excellent
example of how people are prompted to
think about something that perhaps
wouldn't otherwise think about ethics
and morality in the case of the matrix
yes well both and of course quite
clearly in Rogers work there's an
invitation in this work to think
carefully about the profound and
justices because there's more than one
sort of injustice may be involved in the
internment ok we'll tell you what we are
going to take a quick commercial break
but stay tuned because when k we're news
extra continues we will talk about mr.
shim amaura's work as well as its
impacts on the study of philosophy stay
tuned you're watching koat in
you